###################################################################################################
European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control Daily Global Statistics: Coronavirus Source Data
###################################################################################################

`<https://ourworldindata.org/coronavirus-source-data>`_

Our complete COVID-19 dataset is a collection of the COVID-19 data maintained
by *Our World in Data*. **It is updated daily** and includes data on confirmed
cases, deaths, and testing.

**All our data can be downloaded.**

**You find the complete Our World in Data COVID-19 dataset—together with a
complete overview of our sources and more—\ at our GitHub repository** `here
<https://github.com/owid/covid-19-data/tree/master/public/data/>`__\ **.**

**************************
Deaths and cases: our data
**************************

Our World in Data relies on data from Johns Hopkins University
==============================================================

In this document, the many linked charts, our `COVID-19 Data Explorer
<https://ourworldindata.org/coronavirus-data-explorer>`__, and the Complete
COVID-19 dataset we report and visualize the data on confirmed cases and deaths
from `Johns Hopkins University <https://coronavirus.jhu.edu/map.html>`__ (JHU).
We make the data used in our charts and tables downloadable as a complete and
structured .csv, .xlsx and json file `here on our GitHub site
<https://github.com/owid/covid-19-data/tree/master/public/data>`__.

The Johns Hopkins University dashboard and dataset is maintained by a team at
its `Center for Systems Science and Engineering (CSSE)
<https://systems.jhu.edu/>`__. It has been publishing updates on confirmed
cases and deaths for all countries since January 22, 2020. A feature on the JHU
dashboard and dataset was published in *The Lancet* in early May 2020.\ `1
<#note-1>`__ This has allowed millions of people across the world to track the
course and evolution of the pandemic.

JHU updates its data multiple times each day. This data is sourced from
governments, national and subnational agencies across the world — a full list
of data sources for each country is published `on Johns Hopkins GitHub site
<https://github.com/CSSEGISandData/COVID-19>`__. It also makes its data
publicly available there.

Note that on November 30, *Our World in Data* transitioned from the European
Center for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) to Johns Hopkins University as
our source for confirmed cases and deaths. This followed the ECDC’s
announcement that they were switching from daily to weekly updates. More
information on this change can be found `here
<https://ourworldindata.org/covid-data-switch-jhu>`__.

Testing: the *Our World in Data* testing database
=================================================

Testing data is collected by *Our World in Data* by browsing public information
from official sources. We rely on figures published on official websites, in
press releases and by social media accounts of national authorities—usually
governments, ministries of health, or centres for disease control.

Our testing dataset is entirely replicable:

-  Links to the main sources for each country are provided in `detailed source
   descriptions
   <https://ourworldindata.org/coronavirus-testing#source-information-country-by-country>`__;
-  We list specific individual sources for each data point in `files
   available on GitHub
   <https://github.com/owid/covid-19-data/tree/master/public/data/testing>`__.

-  `<https://ourworldindata.org/coronavirus-testing>`__ Without testing for the
   virus there is no data on the pandemic. This is why we built the Our World in
   Data COVID-19 Testing database.  There we provide detailed descriptions of
   sources for each country.

Endnotes
========

# Dong, E., Du, H., & Gardner, L. (2020). `An interactive web-based
  dashboard to track COVID-19 in real time
  <https://www.thelancet.com/journals/laninf/article/PIIS1473-3099(20)30120-1/fulltext>`__.
  *The Lancet infectious diseases*, *20*\ (5), 533-534.

Cite this work
==============

Our articles and data visualizations rely on work from many different people
and organizations. When citing this entry, please also cite the underlying data
sources. This entry can be cited as:

Edouard Mathieu, Hannah Ritchie, Lucas Rodés-Guirao, Cameron Appel, Charlie Giattino, Joe Hasell, Bobbie Macdonald, Saloni Dattani, Diana Beltekian, Esteban Ortiz-Ospina and Max Roser (2020) - "Coronavirus Pandemic (COVID-19)". Published online at OurWorldInData.org. Retrieved from: 'https://ourworldindata.org/coronavirus' [Online Resource]

BibTeX citation
---------------

::
    @article{owidcoronavirus,
        author = {Edouard Mathieu and Hannah Ritchie and Lucas Rodés-Guirao and Cameron Appel and Charlie Giattino and Joe Hasell and Bobbie Macdonald and Saloni Dattani and Diana Beltekian and Esteban Ortiz-Ospina and Max Roser},
        title = {Coronavirus Pandemic (COVID-19)},
        journal = {Our World in Data},
        year = {2020},
        note = {https://ourworldindata.org/coronavirus}
    }

--------------

Reuse this work freely
======================

All visualizations, data, and code produced by Our World in Data are completely
open access under the `Creative Commons BY license
<https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/>`__. You have the permission to
use, distribute, and reproduce these in any medium, provided the source and
authors are credited.

The data produced by third parties and made available by Our World in Data is
subject to the license terms from the original third-party authors. We will
always indicate the original source of the data in our documentation, so you
should always check the license of any such third-party data before use and
redistribution.

All of `our charts can be embedded
</how-to-use-our-world-in-data#how-to-embed-interactive-charts-in-your-article>`__
in any site.
